So we now have the main mechanics of our game implemented and working.
We can play through essentially the entire game loop and enter a win or lose state.
What the project is currently missing is the flair.
And we're going to begin addressing that in this lecture with the use of particle effects.
So I've provided all of the effects we'll be using for this so we can jump straight into the code and
begin seeing how to spawn the particles at runtime.
So if we begin by implementing the effects in our base class, the pawn base class, because remember,
this is the universal functionality that the child classes will be using regardless.
And in a in a kind of more fleshlight game, you may have different effects for the turrets and different
effects for the player.
And then you could just override the effects.
But knowing that regardless of the type of effect you're using, that all of the pawn based classes
will need some form of effect to play.
The first thing we need to do here is to create a new pointer to the You Park system, which our name
Death Particle will provide.
This a simple you property to allow us to edit this anywhere.
And provide a category named effects.
I'll also take this opportunity to do something that we probably should have done from the beginning,
and that's create a health component in the base class here.
So at the moment, we're adding these manually into the child blueprint classes.
And as we're not actually making use of a blueprint derived health component, we can just declare and
implement the health component here.
As both of the PWN classes will need one anyway.
So first, we need to remember to forward declare our health component class.
And then create a new health component pointer named health component.
We can then just copy the property from any of the other components above and will paste that in just
here.
In our COFO, we can create our health component just like any other.
Using the create default sub object.
Of type health component and set the text to health component.
As we considered when creating the health component, this doesn't have a requirement for a transform
due to the type of component we've gone for, which means that we won't need to use the set up attachment
for the component type.
And then obviously, to get the reference to this, we just need to include the tune tanks, forward
slash component, forward slash health component, not hej at the top of our code while moving down
to the handle destruction function.
We're not going to use the new game play static's and the function within this that we want for the
particles to be sporn emitter at location, start spawning a particle emitter at a given location.
The first argument is Take's will be a reference to this and it will then want the particles that we
wanted to spawn and that will be our death particle.
Then for the location to spawn the particles, we can just use the location of the porn that this is
on when it's destroyed by using the GETT Act allocation and the function also takes in a rotation argument.
But we won't need to apply or add any kind of offset to the rotation.
So if we leave this blank or just don't provide an additional argument that will complete the function
call and doing this will set the rotation to default to zero on the X, Y and Z.
So these spawn a better allocation, already accounts for a no reference being passed in.
So we can just call this and not worry about the property being left blank in the editor.
And then while still in the idea, we can also handle the other class that will make use of the particle
system and that will be the projectile for the impact effects.
So in the projectile, I had a class.
We want to create another pointer to the U.
Particle system and we'll name this one hit particle.
This can use the same you property specifiers as before, we'll make this edit anywhere and provide
it.
The category of effects.
Then in the code file, you have a small challenge waiting for you.
So take what you know about the setup of our project and see if you can spawn a particle whenever the
projectile hit something, whether that's a wall floor or any type of porn.
So see if you can remember the function call for the spawning of the particle emitter.
But of course, if you do get stuck, you can just revisit the implementation we've just made in our
base class.
So I pulled video and give this one to go.
OK.
So hopefully you've got this one.
The first thing that we needed to do.
We already have the checks in place for our use to see whether we've hit something valid that isn't
ourselves before we apply damage.
It makes sense that we want to use this result to be when we Spoonhour effects as well as we don't want
the effects going off when the projectile is not destroyed or vice versa.
We don't want the projectile being destroyed without showing the effects.
So we can test everything in here.
Then we just need to use the spoon, a better allocation function on the new gameplay statics as we've
done previously.
And then we're passing in exactly the same parameters here, just swapping out the death particle that
we used for the hit particle in this class.
So that's gonna be a reference to this, the hit particle.
We'll get the actual location and we won't need to pass in a rotation here.
Well, so back in this function, I've just noticed that we could also drop the destroy function into
our F check here, too, to ensure that we're not destroying the projectile when it hasn't met a valid
damage criteria, as this could lead the projectile to being destroyed when we're hitting the owner.
And because none of the effects or anything would be getting played, it would just have this kind of
disappearing.
That could look a little bit confusing in the game.
With that done, we can return to the editor and compile this to check the changes.
The first thing is that both of the pawns will now have to health components.
So we'll go into these classes and we'll remove the ones that we have assigned manually.
We can then see that with either of these selected, we have our new effects category and the death
particle slot.
So we can just feel that using the dropdown and selecting the P underscore death effect.
We also want to do the same for our projecto class, too.
So just use the collapsed ed and search for effects and then place the hit effect into this slot.
With that done, we can finish by testing our new particle effects and action.
And they're looking pretty cool.
So just some simple effects like that are already making things just look that little bit more interesting.
Making an effect on the world and the objects that they interact with look that little bit more meaningful.